# Getting Started with C Programming

To learn C effectively, it's important to understand its structure. Every programming language has its own structure, and a typical C program includes several key parts. Here are the steps outlining the structure of a regular C program:

## Include Header Files

Include necessary header files that contain declarations of functions, constants, and macros that can be used in one or more source code files.
Some popular header files are `<stdio.h>`, `<stdlib.h>`, and `<string.h>`.

### stdio.h

Provides input and output functions like printf and scanf.

```c
#include <stdio.h>
```

### stdlib.h

Contains functions involving memory allocation, rand function, and other utility functions.

```c
#include <stdlib.h>
```

### math.h

Includes mathematical functions like sqrt, sin, cos, etc.

```c
#include <math.h>
```

### string.h

Includes functions for manipulating strings, such as strcpy, strlen, etc.

```c
#include <string.h>
```

### ctype.h

Includes functions for testing and mapping characters, like isalpha, isdigit, etc.

```c
#include <ctype.h>
```

### stdbool.h

Defines the boolean data type and values true and false.

```c
#include <stdbool.h>
```

### time.h

Contains functions for working with date and time.

```c
#include <time.h>
```

### limits.h

Defines various implementation-specific limits on integer types.

```c
#include <limits.h>
```

## Define any macros or constants

Define any macros or constants that will be used throughout the program. Macros and constants are optional.

```c
#include <stdio>
define PI 3.14159
```

## Global declarations

Global declarations are optional

```c
#include <stdio>
int num = 20; // Global variable

```

## int function

Every C program must have a `main function`. It is `the entry point of the program`.

```c
int main()
{
  float radius = 5.0;
  float area = PI * radius * radius;

  printf("Area of the circle: %f\n", area);
  return 0;
}

```

## Define other functions as needed

```c
#include <stdio.h>

// Global function declaration
void sample_function();

int main()
{
  return 0;
}


void sample_function ()
{
  // Function programming statements implementation
}
```

A C program can vary from 3 lines to millions of lines and it should be written into one or more text files with extension ".c";
for example, hello.c.
